today i'm going to chat through all the
filming editing
lighting and general production
equipment that i've used to reach 190k
subscribers
and 19 million views on this youtube
[Music]
channel
hey guys so today i just fancied a
chilled chat
and what sparked this video is that i am
buying a new piece of filming equipment
and because it is so central to my
channel
the filming equipment i thought let's
document it in a video
also perfect excuse to run through all
of the equipment i've used over the
years to grow my channel
a lot of people do message me these days
saying i'm starting a youtube channel
what equipment do i need and it was
definitely a question
i asked too when i was starting youtube
the world of cameras
tripods editing software can be tricky
to navigate when you're completely new
to it
and right now in particular student
vlogging has become
really popular now i was a student
vlogger myself
and i know from personal experience that
students do not have the funds
for top of the range cameras that's why
i thought
i should sit down and talk about how you
can be successful on youtube
on a budget we don't need to break the
bank here we can be resourceful
and make youtube videos without
splashing out too much
i will link all of the equipment i
mentioned in this video in the
description box below so you can check
it out too if you're interested
i will just make a quick disclaimer that
most of the links if not all of them
will be affiliate links
that means if you buy anything through
clicking one of those links
i will receive a small commission on the
purchase at no additional cost to you
let's set the scene let's go back to
august 2017
when little paige was filming her first
video
i propped my iphone 7 up on the
windowsill
flipped through the camera setting and
pressed record
i had this phone long before starting my
youtube channel
it was my day-to-day mobile phone no
special purchases
were made for the purpose of making the
video and i didn't just stop at my first
video
i used my iphone 7 to film for the first
two and a half years of my youtube
channel i actually primarily
used the selfie front-facing camera
instead of the back
camera and that was beauty because i
liked to be able to see the shorts i was
getting
but honestly i never got comments saying
that the quality of my videos was bad
the quality of the camera on my phone
was perfectly sufficient
i always found it so convenient to vlog
using a phone camera because it's so
easy to whip out anywhere whether you're
at lectures or at a coffee shop and it
drew slightly less attention than a
massive camera and vlogging in public to
start off with is not always the most
easy thing
so that was also a bonus i have since
upgraded from this phone the battery
died a sad
death on my iphone 7 so i now film on an
iphone xs
the iphone xs is what i'm filming on
right now and again it is my day-to-day
mobile phone that i use for lots of
other things too
i made a video recently on how i use my
phone if you want to check that out
i've hung onto my iphone 7 because it's
quite handy to have it as a backup
camera
i replaced the battery so it actually
still functions
and although it doesn't have a sim card
in i can use
the camera app to record footage if i
need to
the other essential thing that i needed
when starting my channel
other than a device to film on was
something to edit on
i had this laptop for a couple of years
before starting uni and took it to uni
as the device that i was gonna do
all of my uni work on on my macbook air
i had access to the apple
free editing software imovie a lot of
people score for imovie but honestly it
is perfect for starting out and
really beginner friendly when i started
my youtube channel i had no
previous editing experience so for a
very long time
over a year i was editing all my macbook
air
using imovie after a year and a half
maybe more
i switched to final cut pro x for
editing which is what i use now
i think i paid maybe 200 pounds for it
along with a package of other software
i got a student deal on it at the time
but nevertheless it was more pricey
software
and it was definitely something that i
wouldn't have been ready to start out
with when i started my channel
you can do a lot more with final cut pro
x than you can with imovie
you're a lot less restricted but the
controls take a lot more getting used to
and i remember taking my time
transitioning to final cut pro
also whilst i was at uni i replaced my
macbook air with
an imac desktop computer which i used
for my uni work
but of course it was handy because it
meant i could
edit on it as well so multifunctional i
didn't use a tripod initially
i just propped my phone up on anything i
had to hand
whether that was a stack of books or a
shelf or a washing machine
you just got to be resourceful and try
and get your phone camera at the right
height and pointing in vaguely the right
direction
no one can actually see what's behind
the camera like i could be filming with
my phone propped on a stack of books
right now for all you guys know
it doesn't take away from the quality of
the video i don't think so a tripod is
far from essential when starting out
however it is handy and about four
months into doing youtube
i was gifted a mini tripod by my sister
it was my birthday she didn't just
randomly get me a gift
and it was this manfrotto mini
tripod which had like a head which you
could adjust the angle of
the thing on top actually came
separately and it is
a phone adapter which unscrews
your phone just slots into it
and you can either prop it up on the
side or film
like this if you're walking around and i
use this regularly to this day
it is very good quality so thank you to
my sister because at the time i would
never have bought something like this
for myself
and so then i carried on just using this
until about
six months in and then i actually made a
purchase for myself
of a new full-size tripod this is the
amazon basics tripod that i bought
it's very lightweight and can go up to
127 centimeters i think
the height is adjustable just by pushing
these legs in and out
and i think i got it for around 16
pounds
although the current price on amazon is
1948.
on the top i've actually again attached
one of these phone adapters i now have
quite a lot of these lying around now
but at the time i only had one phone
adapter that i switched between my mini
tripod
and this larger tripod when i've been
doing youtube
for over a year probably a year and
four months or something i had another
birthday and that time my sister got me
a ring light i am currently filming with
the ring light right now
it's an 8 inch led one the brand is
creatic again my sister ordered it off
amazon for me
and it was 22.99 i never knew how much
she paid for it and actually
this price doesn't seem bad to me for a
proper
ring light i'd say though that i didn't
use the ring light
that much for like the first year
after i had it maybe i was just filming
my day-to-day life and it just didn't
feel natural to say
wait stop the camera just need to set up
my ring light and then resume
you know and now i cannot possibly make
a video about equipment
without mentioning this beauty
this is a portable charger and
i think after my phone for filming and
laptop for editing
this is the next most important thing
that i have needed for
my youtube channel and making youtube
videos filming on my phone obviously
drains the battery and i need to be sure
that my phone is gonna last the day when
i'm filming a day in the life
you can get them for what 15-20 pounds
online
i charge it up on the mains the night
before plug in my phone charging cable
and then i can literally just plug my
phone into this anywhere
and it will stay charged up and then
let's fast forward to two and a half
years after i started my youtube channel
and then i decided to upgrade my amazon
basics tripod because by that time
i had used my amazon basics tripod so
much that it was sadly falling apart
if we look at it now it's actually quite
sad this thing just like
completely rips off it it's lost screws
it's
had parts fall off it really is to be
expected
i got it for a very cheap price and then
used it a lot
like i definitely got my money's worth
with it but then i decided because i was
taking youtube a lot more seriously
making videos often
that i would invest in a more sturdy
tripod that i knew would last me for
a longer time in the future and that
tripod that i chose was the k
f concept tripod i got it for 49.99
177 centimeters at full height so
slightly taller than my amazon basics
one i now use
my k f concept tripod for pretty much
every video i make these days
and then last summer i made a very big
purchase
so at this point i've been doing youtube
for approaching three years
and i was finding i wasn't having so
much time to film in the day
i was searching online for lights and i
got a little bit carried away because i
saw this big set
with softbox lights and like a green
stream backdrop and i was like
yes that looks so cool i ended up buying
a
newer set of two softbox lights
two like umbrella lights that i've never
used and
also a big backdrop thing
with white and green screen backdrops
these were the poles on which the
backdrop can be clamped
this is the green backdrop i haven't
actually used this one for a video yet
but i've used the white one a fair bit
the whole set was 185 pounds 99.
i know this sounds like quite a lot of
money but for everything that was
included
it was a great deal none of it was top
of the range by any means like
it's a starter beginner's kit my final
purchase or equipment
for youtube was a gimbal so
this is the ho hem i study x
it's for use with a smartphone so you
just
put your smartphone in it and i have an
app on my phone which connects up to the
gimbal and then it will automatically
balance itself it's not actually set up
right now because
this phone does not have the app and i
believe it's out of charge
the idea is that you'll get ultra smooth
footage using a gimbal i got this around
the same time as
i got all of these softbox lights and
again it was
a more expensive purchase it was 99
pounds for the gimbal from
amazon and i've used this for things
like my
desk tour where i want to get ultra
smooth footage as i pan around
and yeah that is all the equipment i've
used so far to make
youtube videos but really the big
message that i want to get across in
this video
is that fancy equipment is not necessary
it's not essential when starting out
it's not even essential a few years down
the line
in my experience the content of a video
is
far more important than production
quality not having equipment or the
funds to buy equipment
should never be a barrier to starting a
youtube channel
it's so easy these days to just vlog on
a smartphone
and edit on some free editing software
that you can get up on a laptop
to be honest it was only after a few
years that i
invested in some quality equipment
myself and that was because i saw this
new equipment as toys and not because i
was obsessing over production quality
and with all that said i am treating
myself to a camera
now i've been doing youtube for quite a
while i know it's not just a phase
i have a long-term interest in making
videos and i have held off
for so long on buying a proper camera
don't get me wrong i'm not getting it
out of necessity
i've actually been watching plenty of
comparison videos of this camera versus
an iphone
and the iphone camera holds up pretty
well i'm just getting a camera because i
know i'll have fun using it and i think
it will be great to complement the
footage i get on my iphone too
i've started a job i'm earning money now
i'm not exactly going out
much at the moment to spend it so why
not splash out
the camera i have opted to buy is the
canon g7x
mark ii which so many youtubers use it's
the classic vlogging camera
i did look at other brands and more
recent models but
the canon g7x mark ii seems to still be
really popular
and what people rave about i'm so
excited
and i'm gonna order it right now i
probably should have checked if it's
on offer anywhere can i get a deal
can i get a deal okay i've been going
for quite a while because i realized i
had no clue about
sd cards and i probably wanted a case
so i've just been looking through and
choosing what i want but i have settled
on
the camera g7x mark ii 499 pounds
don't think about it amazon basics case
for now
i just don't want to break it in the
first day and one sd card to start off
with proceed to check out
okay i've placed my order i'm so tired
so i'm gonna go to bed now like it's so
late at night it's
about midnight i don't know why i
decided to film so late this evening
and i've got a tutorial at 9 00 am
tomorrow so
no lion for me i will chat to you guys
again when the camera arrives and
it's on next day delivery so oh no it's
not on next day delivery
oh no i've got to wait until wednesday
because i ordered it so late
to be clear it is midnight so not
entirely surprising
i look forward to wednesday and i'll
update you guys and show you and maybe
give you a demo
ah it's a couple of days later and i am
so hyped
the camera or what i think is the camera
anyway if i open this parcel and it's
not the camera i'm gonna be very
disappointed
but it's arrived
it is indeed the camera the canon
powershot g7x
mark ii you can see my ring light in the
reflection
i have just thrown my ring light on this
evening
oh i've just thought what if the battery
doesn't have any charge in it
that's going to be so disappointing if i
open it up and i can't try it out
straight away
oh my god it's a beauty it is a beauty
okay i put the battery in
this bit i believe flicks out oh oh
oh i feel like i need to put a strap on
it yes
there's a strap i'd be very worried that
i would drop this getting used to the
weight
it is heavier than a phone vlogging
might be a bit more of a workout now
with this camera okay so unless i am
incompetent at turning a camera on and
off
i'm gonna presume the battery needs
charging i'm gonna charge the battery
and then we're gonna resume
okay we are assuming i've charged the
battery for a while i have no idea if it
was long enough
oh it's turned on oh set the date and
time
2021 what is the time 1108
i don't know why i always stay up late
filming is it on video mode i feel
how do i get it on video mode um oh here
we go
is it actually recording i'm not gonna
lie this
white light is completely washing me out
but hey
okay so i've now got the two cameras my
phone camera
and my new canon g7x side
by side geez like
look at the difference the canon
completely white background whereas on
my phone it just looks yellow
where the iphone camera really falls
down is kind of
low lighting and i think the canon g7x
should be able to handle that yeah i
hope you enjoyed the video
if you're considering making videos
yourself or just starting out then i
hope it might have been
helpful to you and to everyone else i
hope you've enjoyed having a bit of a
behind the scenes look at
how i make my youtube videos how i've
made them over the years thank you for
joining give the video a like subscribe
follow my instagram see you soon with
another video
bye
[Music]